Sara/release notes/aug2023 (#1183)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/release-notes/august-2023.md

---
slug: august-2023
append_help_link: true
title: August 2023
hide_title: true
description: >-
  Release notes include the changes, fixes, and additions in specific versions of Semgrep.
---

# August 2023 release notes

## Semgrep OSS Engine

:::caution

> Semgrep version 1.38.0 introduces several removals that may break your Semgrep workflows. See [Semgrep OSS > Removed](#removed) for more information.

Reviewer: "introduces several removals" is strange. "Removes some functionality", maybe?

    - If it can't fetch a config from Semgrep servers it will use backup infrastructure to fetch the most recent successful config for that customers environment. ([#8459](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8459/))
- `metavariable-comparison`: You can now use `in` and `not in` for strings in the same sense as in Python, for substring checking. ([#2979](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8406))
- **Julia:** Added the deep expression operator. Now you can write patterns such as `foo(<... 42 ...>)` to find instances of calls to `foo` that contain `42` somewhere inside of it. ([#8540](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8540))
- Added support for languages with case insensitive identifiers and generalized PHP to use these case insensitive identifiers.
  - For example, in PHP the pattern `MyClass()` now matches calls with different capitalizations such as `myclass()` and `Myclass()`. ([#8356](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8356))

### Fixed

- Fixed `--text` and `--output` flags which broke in 1.38.0. If you are using version 1.38.0, update Semgrep to receive these fixes.

> - Version 1.38.0 introduced some regressions with the Semgrep docker image. This is fixed in version 1.38.3.

Reviewer: This phrasing seems odd to me, because technically there were never regressions with the version tagged 1.38.0 - the problem was with the `latest` tag behavior. But I'm having a hard time coming up with anything better. `Docker` does need to be capitalized though I think.

Author: I'll remove this line - the message to UPDATE NAO is also served by the breakage in the output and text flags.

- Converted all '@r2c.dev' email addresses to '@semgrep.com'. Several error messages displayed outdated email addresses. With this fix, you can now see the correct email to reach out to the Semgrep Support team at [support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com). ([#8446](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8446))
- Fixed CLI output to display matches from different rules with the same message. Now you are able to see the rule ID granularly even if two rules have the same rule message. ([#8557](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8557))
- Semgrep PyPI package can now be installed on **aarch64 libmusl** platforms such as Alpine. (gh-8565)

> - Improved the `--max-memory` help description to make it clearer. Its previous message, "Defaults to 0 for all CLI scans" implies a different default for non-CLI scans, where in practicality the default is 0 for all scans except when using Pro Engine, where the default is 5000.

Reviewer: This description is itself not quite right, I believe. @sinat101 Can you provide more context if I'm missing something? The default remains 0 for Pro Engine scans on CLI (just ran one myself on 1.38.3 to check). So presumably there are only certain environments where the 5000 default kicks in.

Author: @armchairlinguist I tried to check this for myself today - what command were you running to display the --max-memory? because I ran on verbose and nothing appeared 🤯

Reviewer: Ah yes sorry, I should have said - it requires using --debug. I only ran it long enough for the semgrep-core invocation, since that's where you see which arguments get passed in.

Author: We got to the bottom of this case! Resolving.

- **Julia:** Type information from declarations can now be used in metavariable-type. For instance, the program:
  ```
  x :: Int64 = 2
  ```
  now allows uses of x to match to the type Int64. ([#8470](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/8470))
- **Julia:** Metavariables are now able to appear anywhere that identifiers can. For instance, they were not able to appear as the argument to a `do` block. ([#8486](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/8486)) Now, you can write patterns such as:
```
map($Y) do $X
  ...
end
```

- **Java:** Fixed naming bug affecting Java and other OO languages that allowed a method parameter to shadow a class attribute. For example, in:
  ```
  class Test {
  
      private int x;
  
      public void test2(int x) {
          foo(this.x);
      }
  
  }
  ```
  Semgrep was considering that `this.x` referred to the parameter `x` of `test2` rather than to the class attribute `x`. ([#8508](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8508))

### Changed

> - Running the `semgrep`  command now displays the help message. Previously, the `semgrep` command ran a SAST scan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Running the `semgrep`  command with no subcommand now displays the help message. Previously, the `semgrep` command ran a SAST scan by default.
```

  - The preferred method to run rules is to explicitly pass rules through the `--config` option. For example, to run a `.semgrep.yml` file containing rules, you must enter `semgrep --config .semgrep.yml`.
- If you previously wrapped Semgrep Python code by calling `semgrep_main.main`, you must replace the previous call with `run_scan.run_scan`. Note that these Python calls will be removed in the future.
- `--enable-metrics` and `--disable-metrics` have been removed. Instead, use any of the following:
  - `--metrics=on`
  - `--metrics=off`
  - `--metrics=auto`

## Semgrep Pro Engine

<!-- Separated pro engine because it is proprietary -->

### Fixed

- **JavaScipt (JS) or TypeScript (TS) taint mode:** fixed a bug introduced in 1.33.1 that had the side-effect of hurting performance of taint rules on JS or TS repositories that used destructuring in a function's formal parameters.

## Semgrep Cloud Platform

### Added

> - The `semgrep ci` command now displays enabled products when scans are command now created or when the scan config is generated from Semgrep Cloud Platform. Additionally, if no products are enabled then a friendly error is raised and the scan is stopped. You must enable a product to start a scan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `semgrep ci` command now displays enabled products when the scan config is generated from Semgrep Cloud Platform. Additionally, if no products are enabled then a friendly error is raised and the scan is stopped. You must enable a product to start a scan.
```

It seems weird to me to have this in the SCP section since it's a change in Semgrep behavior, even if it only affects `semgrep ci`. Thoughts?

Author: Just curious - what seems weird about it to you? My thought was: `semgrep ci` can run any, all, or none of the products, but does require an SCP account and isn't under Semgrep OSS.

Reviewer: That seems reasonable. It stuck me as odd, but logically I think your reasoning is better than my instinct 😄

- **Projects page:** Added a **Sync projects** button which enables you to synchronize your Semgrep projects with your SCM. This means you are able to see the current status of your scans across all your projects that you have onboarded to Semgrep Cloud Platform.

## Semgrep Code

### Added 

- **Rules page:** Added a new view, **Group by vulnerability class**, that is the default view within the Rules page.
- Added a **last updated** attribute to rule cards. This helps you troubleshoot unexpected findings in unchanged configs.
- Added a **<i class="fa-regular fa-clipboard"></i> Copy rule** button within the rule popup.

## Semgrep SSC

### Added

- Added **lockfile-only rules** for the following languages:
  - C#
  - PHP

### Fixed

- **PNPM:** Fixed a bug where dependencies in `pnpm-lock.yaml` at version 6.0 and up were not parsed.
- **Gradle:** Fixed an issue where packages in `build.gradle` files had their names incorrectly parsed without their group ID.

### Removed

- Removed the ability to turn off scanning with lockfile-only rules. Moving foward, lockfile-only rules are included in all full scans.

## Semgrep Assistant

### Fixed

> - GitHub: Fixed a bug in which you can receive duplicate PR comments if they had installed more than one instance of `semgrep-app`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- GitHub: Fixed a bug in which you ciykd receive duplicate PR comments if you had installed more than one instance of `semgrep-app`.
```

---
slug: august-2023
append_help_link: true
title: August 2023
hide_title: true
description: >-
  Release notes include the changes, fixes, and additions in specific versions of Semgrep.
---

# August 2023 release notes

## Semgrep OSS Engine

:::caution
Semgrep version 1.38.0 removed some features that may break your Semgrep workflows. See [Semgrep OSS > Removed](#removed) for more information.
:::

This section of release notes includes upgrades of Semgrep OSS Engine for versions between **1.35.0** and **1.38.3**.

### Added

> - The CLI now returns the commit timestamp when running `semgrep ci`.

Author: I changed it to collects, just in case.

- Added support for languages with case insensitive identifiers and generalized PHP to use these case insensitive identifiers.
  - For example, in PHP the pattern `MyClass()` now matches calls with different capitalizations such as `myclass()` and `Myclass()`. ([#8356](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8356))

### Fixed

- Fixed `--text` and `--output` flags which broke in 1.38.0. If you are using version 1.38.0, update Semgrep to receive these fixes.
- Converted all '@r2c.dev' email addresses to '@semgrep.com'. Several error messages displayed outdated email addresses. With this fix, you can now see in the CLI the correct email to reach out to the Semgrep Support team, which is [support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com). ([#8446](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8446))
- Fixed CLI output to display matches from different rules with the same message. Now you are able to see the rule ID granularly even if two rules have the same rule message. ([#8557](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/pull/8557))
- Semgrep PyPI package can now be installed on **aarch64 libmusl** platforms such as Alpine. (gh-8565)

> - Improved the `--max-memory` help description to make it clearer. Its previous message, "Defaults to 0 for all CLI scans," did not convey that the default is 0 for all scans except when using Semgrep Pro Engine in CI scans. The default is 5000MiB for Semgrep Pro Engine CI scans. In this context, a CI scan is any scan using the `semgrep ci` command, whether in a local environment or a CI/CD pipeline, and Pro Engine must be enabled for the org whose repositories you are scanning.

Author: In that case, I think I can add the --flag as well :) It's good to know.

- `--enable-metrics` and `--disable-metrics` have been removed. Instead, use any of the following:
  - `--metrics=on`
  - `--metrics=off`
  - `--metrics=auto`

## Semgrep Pro Engine

<!-- Separated pro engine because it is proprietary -->

### Fixed

- **JavaScipt (JS) or TypeScript (TS) taint mode:** fixed a bug introduced in 1.33.1 that had the side-effect of hurting performance of taint rules on JS or TS repositories that used destructuring in a function's formal parameters.

## Semgrep Cloud Platform

### Added

- The `semgrep ci` command now displays enabled products when scans are command now created or when the scan config is generated from Semgrep Cloud Platform. Additionally, if no products are enabled then a friendly error is raised and the scan is stopped. You must enable a product in Semgrep **Cloud Platform > Settings** to start a scan.
- You can now remove your SSO configuration. Previously, you had to reach out to [support@semgrep.com](mailto:support@semgrep.com) to remove SSO configurations.

> - **Projects page:** Added a **Sync projects** button which enables you to synchronize your Semgrep projects with your SCM. This means you are able to see the current status of your scans across all your projects that you have onboarded to Semgrep Cloud Platform.

Reviewer 2: "This means you are able to see the current status of your scans across all your projects that you have onboarded to Semgrep Cloud Platform." -> @ThatDevShparki doesn't this technically just mean that the projects will be there and it's more for enabling easier onboarding of additional projects? Being able to see the status was already there?

Reviewer 3: That's correct- the sync button just allows you to manually synchronize your current repository list with those available in the SCMs where those repositories originated from

Reviewer 2: @s-santillan I think we should rephrase this to say "Added a **Sync projects** button which enables you to synchronize your Semgrep projects with your SCM. This will enable you to faster onboard projects to the Semgrep Cloud Platform and ensure all your repositories are represented and available for scanning." (or something similar)

Author: Sounds perfect. Thank you @annikalee and @ThatDevShparki

Author: Resolving as fixed in latest commit.
